Hi again and welcome back to this masterclass on job search and interviewing.
I wanted to take this opportunity to talk about microexpressions.
Now, Dr. Paul Ekman of the Pokemon Institute is known as the father of Micro-expressions, and he travelled
around the world for more than 20 years and he captured pictures of people from the remotest parts of
the world all the way to the most civilised and most urban parts of the world.
And he proved that expressions of human emotion are universal.
It doesn't matter where you are, it doesn't matter what your social standing is.
You will always display emotions the exact same way.
And there's only a few different human emotions.
As you can see on the screen.
There's happiness.
There's sadness.
Well, happiness is not included here, but there are only seven expressions of human emotion happiness,
sadness, contempt, surprise, anger, disgust and fear.
And each of these manifests differently based on the situation you're going through.
But the important thing to remember and why these things are called micro-expressions is because they
appear on the face for less than a 10th of a second, sometimes way less than that, sometimes a little
longer, but usually in fractions of a second.
And there are right and wrong emotions to display during an interview.
Now, these things, these expressions cannot be controlled.
And when you're facing a situation, then your body will automatically react.
In a certain way when you're enjoying when you're having a good time, then you will see happiness that
will manifest itself on your face, the exact way that it manifests for anyone else in the world.
So how do you control them then?
The best thing to do is to put yourself in the state of mind where you're at ease, where you're comfortable.
Some expressions you should absolutely never show in an interview are anger, disgust, contempt.
Contempt is the only asymmetrical expression.
If you look at the picture in the top row, in the middle.
That's contempt.
And it's characterized by the corner of your mouth and just one side moving out and closer to you.
And the rest of the face has no indicators.
So.
The contempt itself is is very bad because it's it comes from a point of higher moral ground.
You feel like you're morally better than the other person.
And that's not a good expression to display, because then you're no matter what the other person says,
you cannot take them seriously.
And you you believe that somehow you're superior to the other person.
And that's why contempt is a very destructive emotion.
Now, anger also cannot be controlled, but anger is characterized by tensing the muscles of the face
and especially tensing of the the eyelids and your eyebrows moving down and in an inverted triangle.
And tensing of the upper lip.
So an clenching of the jaw is another one.
Anger is not to be displayed in an interview because you want it to be present.
And when you leave the interview room, you want them to associate you with a happy memory.
So some.
Emotion.
A couple of emotions that you can display.
Surprise, happiness.
Usually keep yourself upbeat, keeping yourself comfortable and putting your mind at ease by telling
it that this is not a situation to be afraid of will automatically drive the other emotions away so
you won't feel the need to show them.
And your body will not feel like you need to display fear or anger or whatever.
If you're having a bad interview, then just say you will do better and just focus on the present moment.
Don't focus on what is already happened.
If you've already had a bad interview, there's nothing you can do about it.
So focus on how you can improve your life from that moment on.
And for of course, if you want to know more about microexpressions, then you can always check out
the Web and visit the Ekman Institute.
And that helps.
The Paul Ekman Institute really focuses on improving relations by being able to decode the face and
by learning to read micro-expressions.
But anyway, for the purposes of this interview masterclass, we will limit this to to saying that.
You need to display positive emotions, and that can only be done if you put your mind in a positive
state.
Now, that said.
When you present yourself at an interview, then you you want to avoid unnecessary facial movements.
So think and process what information the interviewer is giving you.
And if the interviewer is asking you a question, then resist the urge to sell yourself.
Resist the urge to answer immediately.
It's not a rapid fire round and no one is going to ding with points for answering a couple of seconds
late.
Stop.
Process that information.
Ask the interviewer if this is what they want to know and then formulate your response.
Avoid filler words.
Avoid words like well, things like that.
Because they take away from the essence of what you want to say.
And the longer it takes for you to get to a point, the more frustrating it becomes.
So that's about facial expressions.
And thank you for watching.
I look forward to the next video and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.